big things are gonna be found in water
different from where you're gonna find
the average 10 to 12 inch rainbow you
want to look for structure and deeper
water woody debris rocky points even
docks that are gonna provide cover for
big fish and baitfish alike if your
local lake or your reservoir draws down
then you can get a chance in the
wintertime and in the late fall to walk
it and find out where those best places
that are that are gonna hide a big fish
but we're fishin crane prairie lake for
big rainbows with our guide Scott cook
from flying field Outfitters in Bend
Scott knows this water very well he's a
fished here for most of his life and
what's interesting what's different
about fishing for rainbows here is
you're not using the big bait fish type
imitations that we may use in other
waters to target big fish these fish get
really really big on tiny bugs and a
primarily chironomid in some waters
piranhas make up to 40% of the diet of a
big trout and so what we'll do is we'll
target them with an indicator and then
two flies one rig to be just off the
bottom and the other rig to be 16 to 18
inches up if there's nothing else going
on you can bet that the fish are gonna
eat a chironomid on crane Prairie the
trick is finding the old river channels
and as the average lake temperature
warms the these fish move into these
cooler river channels and use them as
highways to move around
the funny thing about using the strike
indicator some people think it's a
boring way of finishing I think it is
one of the most exciting ways to fish
because you're watching this little cork
indicator out on the water if it moves
even a fraction of an inch that is
something you need to set the hook on
now because that fish could be 10 inches
long it might be 10 pounds just wait on
that back cast perfect so that's the
idea of setting these things that about
you know 12 inches to say a foot to two
feet off at the bottom is where these
flies are sitting and they're sitting
there down there doing this and that's
exactly what the what the real real bug
is doing and they're totally suspended
there until they take them sometimes the
biggest fish or the softest takes so
there you go get him that's right that's
weight oh man tip all the way back
behind your head keep going keep going
keep going
not again run tip all the way up back
behind your head